Like a good book or an incredible outfit, being on vacation transports you into another
version of yourself.
In your day-to-day life, maybe you can’t even bob your head to the radio without being
embarrassed, but on the right twinkly-light-strung patio, with the right steel drum band,
you’ll find yourself whirling and twirling with the best of them.
On vacation, your hair changes. The water is different, maybe the shampoo. Maybe you
don’t bother to wash your hair at all, or brush it, because the salty ocean water curls it up in
a way you love. You think, Maybe I could do this at home too. Maybe I could be this person
who doesn’t brush her hair, who doesn’t mind being sweaty or having sand in all her
crevices.
On vacation, you strike up conversations with strangers, and forget that there are any
stakes. If it turns out impossibly awkward, who cares? You’ll never see them again!
You’re whoever you want to be. You can do whatever you want.
Okay, so maybe not whatever you want. Sometimes the weather forces you into a
particular situation, such as the one I’m in now, and you have to find second-rate ways to
entertain yourself as you wait out the rain.
On my way out of the bathroom, I pause. Partly, this is because I’m still working on my
game plan. Mostly, though, it’s because the floor is so sticky that I lose my sandal and have
to hobble back for it. I love everything about this place in theory, but in practice, I think
letting my bare foot touch the anonymous filth on the laminate might be a good way to
contract one of those rare diseases kept in the refrigerated vials of a secret CDC facility.
I dance-hop back to my shoe, slip my toes through the thin orange straps, and turn to
survey the bar: the press of sticky bodies; the lazy whorl of thatched fans overhead; the door
propped open so that, occasionally, a burst of rain rips in off the black night to cool the
sweating crowd. In the corner, a jukebox haloed in neon light plays the Flamingos’ “I Only
Have Eyes for You.”